All right, so now we're going to do a few small little projects so that you can see how to really apply
some of these mathematical functions and things that we can do in Java.
So we'll start off with a small little method that will calculate the area of a circle and to calculate
the area of a circle.
The formula is pretty simple.
It is pi r squared area equals pi our squared.
So what we will do will stick with this math stuff class and we'll just create a a method in here to
calculate the area of a circle.
And we can call this method calculate area of circle.
So see here now.
We don't need this function to be part of any object oriented model or anything like that.
And because we don't need it to be like in an object oriented fashion, the way will implement this
is simply as a static method on this class math stuff.
Much the same as the methods that we just went through on the math class itself.
Those are all static methods.
So we'll follow a similar signature to our main method here with a few small differences, though public
static.
Now, this won't be void because we want a method that will return the actual area, and we'll just
use the default numeric type for non integers of double.
All right, so it will return a double.
And I don't know.
We'll call it calculate.
I'll shorten it to count area of circle.
OK, now what is the input of this?
While the formula is area equals pi, our squared R squared R is the radius of the circle.
So that would be the unknown thing that we would need to use as an input.
So we will take that as an input and we'll make that a double as well.
All right.
So we'll call this radius.
OK.
So this should be pretty, pretty straightforward.
All we need to do is to return to the area, which is calculated as pie.
Now I just showed you in one of the previous lessons recently that the constant of pie is already given
to us on the math class, so we can just invoke that by calling math dot pie.
All caps pie.
And the formula is pi r squared, in fact, you know.
Let me let's just do this area equals pi times R.
Squared, OK.
That's one way to kind of.
No, no, take this in a comment.
OK, so pi times radius to the second power.
Now the way to do this would be to call math, not power.
The first argument will be the radius, and then the second argument is the power to which we want to
raise it.
OK, so radius and then two.
So there we have it.
Pi times, radius squared.
That's that's how you would do this.
All right.
So now let's try it out.
So I'm going to just make a new line here to pronounce system that out that print line.
And now we can just call our new method calc area of circle.
All right.
So let's say if we have a circle of Radius nine now, I have a website over here that we can use to
kind of check whether or not we're actually going to do this correctly.
So here they give an example of a radius of three meters.
OK, and then they're showing the formula there, and then they're showing what the area is, which
is twenty eight point two seven meters squared.
So let's use their values and see if this works.
OK.
So we'll use three.
And then let's run this and see what we get.
OK, so their answer on the website was twenty eight point twenty seven meters squared and our answer
is twenty eight point two seven and then a whole bunch more.
I think we've got a winner here.
All right.
So that was a really easy one.
Let me show you something else, by the way.
So I put this formula here just as a little note.
So Java has a standardized way of of making of documenting your methods.
And the way you do that is you put your cursor right above the method itself.
And you can even do something like this and then use a forward.
What we're going to do is create a certain type of comment called a Java doc, which is short for Java
documentation, and to do so, you put your cursor right above the method forward slash star star and
then enter.
And the A.D. knows that you're trying to create a Java doc.
And so then it fills in a few things for you automatically.
A couple of things for you automatically and then you can say whatever you want to, so you can say
something like this method calculate the area of a circle, and then it documents what the input is,
which is radius and the return type, or whatever.
So this is a way.
So anyway, what what what you could do, though, is also you could say it uses the formula area equals
pi times radius.
Squared.
Just like that.
So that's a way that you can document your methods.
All right.
And we're going to wrap up this one.
But we're going to do a few more so that you can get more of an idea of how to actually put these mathematical
functions and capabilities to work for you see in the next one.